Update the `search_only` mode section with more details and recovery scenarios (#9828)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _tuning-your-cluster/seperate-index-and-search-workloads.md

Use the `auto_expand_search_replicas` index setting to automatically scale search replicas based on the number of available search nodes in the cluster. For more information, see [Index settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/index-settings/#dynamic-index-level-index-settings).

### Turn off write workloads with search-only mode

You can use the `_scale` API to turn off primary shards and write replicas for an index when you don't need to write to it. This approach works well for write-once, read-many scenarios like log analytics, where you can reduce resource usage by keeping only search replicas active.

> Before enabling search-only mode, we recommend setting `cluster.remote_store.state.enabled` to `true`. For more information about recovery scenarios, see [Search replica recovery scenarios](#search-replica-recovery-scenarios).

Reviewer: This implies that this is a dynamic setting if its 'before enabling search-only mode' but `cluster.remote_store.state.enabled` is a final setting similar to enabling remote store.  Can we add a note on why we suggest this setting for rw split earlier in the documentation?

Author: Make sense, let me move this note.

Author: Updated in my latest commit, can you please check again ?

}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Search replica recovery scenarios

OpenSearch handles recovery of search replicas in search-only mode differently depending on your configuration:

**Scenario 1: Persistent data directory with remote store state disabled**

When you have persistent data and `cluster.remote_store.state.enabled` set to `false`, search replicas recover automatically after node restarts.

**Scenario 2: Remote store state enabled without persistent data directory**

When `cluster.remote_store.state.enabled` is `true` but you don't have a persistent data directory, search replicas recover without primaries and write replicas. Because remote store state is enabled, OpenSearch remembers that the index exists after restart. The allocation logic skips checking for an active primary for search replicas, so search replicas are allocated and search queries remain functional.

> **Scenario 3: Remote store state enabled with persistent data directory**

Reviewer: how is this different than scenario 1? it automatically recovers because you have the data directory, not because of the remote state.  I think we can simplify this section to only the first two scenarios.  or a smaller paragraph

Author: With scenario 1 the `cluster.remote_store.state.enabled` is `false` and has persistent data directory. The metadata info is on local node. But with  scenario 3 is when just `cluster.remote_store.state.enabled` set to true with no persistent data directory. With scenario 3 the search replicas will still come up without any manual intervention as it will pull the metadata from remote store and allocates the search replicas.

This configuration provides seamless recovery. In search-only mode with a persistent data directory and `cluster.remote_store.state.enabled` set to `true`, OpenSearch correctly brings up only search replicas without primary and regular replicas.

**Scenario 4: No persistent data directory and remote store state disabled**

> Without a persistent data directory and with `cluster.remote_store.state.enabled` set to `false`, restarting OpenSearch loses all local state and the index becomes unrecoverable because OpenSearch has no metadata reference and local state is wiped.

Reviewer: This is only true if you lose all nodes, not just the SR nodes.

Author: That is correct, this is true for all replicas irrespective of search replicas or in search_only mode. Just covered this scenario here as I want to mention there is no difference with the behavior.

}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Search replica recovery scenarios

OpenSearch handles recovery of search replicas in search-only mode differently depending on the configuration:

##### Scenario 1: Persistent data directory with remote store state disabled

When you use a persistent data directory and set `cluster.remote_store.state.enabled` to `false`, search replicas recover automatically after node restarts.

##### Scenario 2: Remote store state enabled without a persistent data directory

When `cluster.remote_store.state.enabled` is `true` and there is no persistent data directory, OpenSearch recovers search replicas without requiring primaries or write replicas. Because remote store state is enabled, OpenSearch retains the index metadata after a restart. The allocation logic skips the active primary check for search replicas, allowing them to be allocated so search queries remain functional.

##### Scenario 3: Remote store state enabled with a persistent data directory

> This configuration provides seamless recovery. In search-only mode, with both a persistent data directory and `cluster.remote_store.state.enabled` set to `true`, OpenSearch starts only search replicas—excluding primaries and write replicas—ensuring the index remains queryable after restart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This configuration provides seamless recovery. In search-only mode, with both a persistent data directory and `cluster.remote_store.state.enabled` set to `true`, OpenSearch starts only search replicas—excluding primaries and write replicas—ensuring the index can be queried after restart.
```
